---
title: "Onboarding"
subtitle: "Sharing skills with the UCSC community"
promoimg: "onboarding.jpg"
priority: 3
---

# Our Onboarding Process
Each Fall, Slugbotics takes in new members, and introduces them to skills
relevant to robotics. We offer three onboarding tracks to cover the three main
roles used in robotics engineering: Mechanical, Electronics, and Systems. These
onboarding tracks are custom-designed to teach students the skills necessary to
participate in our competitions, and can be learned with minimal prerequisite
knowledge. This makes hands-on experience with engineering and making accessible
to students at UCSC, regardless of prior experience or major.

*Due to the current COVID-19 pandemic, certain aspects of the onboarding process
have had to shift towards remote instruction. Nevertheless, each student will be
still given as much of an opportunity to learn as we can provide given these
current issues. This page details our standard onboarding process, and so
certain aspects such as in-person mechanical and electrical fabrication are not
currently offered. We look forward to resuming our in-person training on these
skills when it becomes safe to do so.*

{{<image-banner "/images/join/mechanical.jpg">}}

## Mechanical
Our Mechanical track gives students an edge with physical design and
fabrication, and serves as an excellent introduction to the skills necessary to
build the physical components of our robots. Students in the mechanical track
learn computer-aided design, or CAD, through SOLIDWORKS, before transitioning to
learning physical fabrication in our lab space. Students finally combine these
skills into assembling a small robotics build for a final project.

Our Mechanical track helps to aid the major programs at UCSC, given a lack of
courses providing hands-on CAD and fabrication experience. Students gain
experience they canâ€™t get from other courses through our team.

*Note: Currently, due to the ongoing pandemic and safety closures, we are
currently focusing the curriculum on CAD design. Physical fabrication and the
final project are currently not offered. We look forward to resuming these
trainings and final projects when it is safe to do so.*

{{<image-banner "/images/join/electronics.jpg">}}

## Electronics
Our Electronics track gives students an introduction to circuit design and
assembly. Students learn how to source and use parts in projects using Digikey,
before breadboarding and prototyping projects. Students also gain hands-on
experience with electronics assembly with soldering, crimping, and other
physical electronics methods. Then, students are introduced to PCB design using
EAGLE, as well as how to order their PCBs. Finally, students are tasked with
designing and building a final circuit, capable of acting as a component in a
robot (such as a power converter). 

The Electronics track is designed to make electronics and circuit design
accessible to a wider audience than existing courses such as ECE 101. This helps
even non-engineering students gain experience in tinkering with electronics.

*Note: Currently, due to the ongoing pandemic and safety closures, we are
currently focusing the curriculum on PCB design in EAGLE. Breadboarding,
soldering/crimping, and the final project are currently not offered. We look
forward to resuming these trainings when it is safe to do so.*

{{<image-banner "/images/join/systems.jpg">}}

## Systems
The Systems track of our onboarding gives students a broad introduction to
software engineering, as well as useful components of software engineering for
robotics. Students are first introduced to the basics of UNIX/Git, which are
essential industry skills for software teams not currently taught at UCSC.
Students are then walked through embedded programming on Arduino, culminating in
a hands-on project to learn about embedded systems. Finally, students learn
about and construct several pieces of software using Qt, Qt Networking, and
OpenCV, in order to gain experience with graphical application development, as
well as integrating graphical applications with technologies used to communicate
with and direct the ROV. 

There are currently no classes at UCSC which teach graphical application
development using traditional desktop frameworks, and this gives students in the
Systems track a broad, useful set of skills relating to the construction of
software, as well as ample experience to make programming contributions to our
team and others.

*Note: Currently, due to the ongoing pandemic and safety closures, we are not
offering the Arduino project. We look forward to resuming this when it is safe
to do so.*

{{<image-block "/images/sponsors/slab.png">}}
# CRSN 151-C
In partnership with the S-lab, beginning in 2020, students will be able to take
one of our onboarding tracks as a three-unit course, enabling students to gain
college credit while learning and doing with hands-on projects. This partnership
has helped us improve our onboarding with extensive feedback from qualified
mentors, and enables us to encourage more students to gain even more experience
through our onboarding program.